The Tidy Character Sheet is a thematic, highly functional sheet to help DMs and Players get the most out of their games by spending more time playing and less time searching.

Here you can find a list of notable features per section in the Character sheet.

> [!TIP]
> Looking for basic functionality like Play/Edit modes, drag and drop, or context menus? Check out [The Basics](https://github.com/kgar/foundry-vtt-tidy-5e-sheets/wiki/2.-The-Basics) guide. Want to customize your sheet's appearance? See [Custom Sheet Themes](https://github.com/kgar/foundry-vtt-tidy-5e-sheets/wiki/5.-Custom-Sheet-Themes).

# Character Sheet Header

A heads-up view for players and DMs of commonly referenced character stats.

- Responsive design
- Condensed information
- Inline Edit Mode actions

## Character Vitals

- Change portrait styles (Theme Settings)
- Support for transparent portraits (Theme Settings)
- Custom exhaustion support
- Stylized death saves

## Character Stats
- Character details in subtitle
- Class save DCs in subtitle
- Banked Inspiration support (Tidy 5e Settings)
- Click Ability bonus for check rolls
- Click Save bonus for save rolls
- Concentration saves

&nbsp;

# Sheet Tab

A combined view of all the main actions, items, and spells a character needs, organizaed by Action type. A one stop shop for all your most commonly referenced information.

> [!NOTE]
> The Sheet tab works best when combined with the **Sidebar**, which can hold any item in your sheet as well as Activities, Effects, and more.

* Use the Context Menu from other tabs (three-dot menu or right-click) and choose **Add to Sheet tab**
* Items you choose to add are sorted by Action type by default (Action, Bonus Action, Reaction)
* Quick filter by Action type
* Supports custom sections and section selection (Configure Sheet button)

&nbsp;

# Sidebar

Add *any Item, Activity, Effect, Slot, Skill, or Tool* from your sheet to the Sidebar for quick access from any other tab.

* Sidebar open/close and selected tab settings are **stored per tab**
* Skills card can be collapsed

## Favorites

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Sidebar **Favorites** are synced with the default sheets, and are a more powerful replacement for **Resources** and Tidy Classic Sheet **Pins**.

* **All Items**, from Classes to Tattoos
* Activities
* Effects
* Spellbook Section Slots
* Skill
* Tool 

&nbsp;

# Character Tab

&nbsp;

# Inventory Tab

&nbsp;

# Spellbook Tab

&nbsp;

# Features Tab

&nbsp;

# Effects Tab

&nbsp;

# Biography Tab

&nbsp;

# Bastion Tab

&nbsp;

# Journal Tab