Customize the look and feel of your sheets with themes.

> [!TIP]
> Make sure you've set up your sheet to use Tidy first! See the [Getting Started](https://github.com/kgar/foundry-vtt-tidy-5e-sheets/wiki/1.-Getting-Started) guide if you need help switching to Tidy sheets.

# Add a Custom Sheet Theme

Any sheet using a Tidy Sheet can be customized with a unique theme. After changing the sheet to the Tidy version:

1. In the Sheet you want to customize, open the Sheet Context Menu (three-dot menu) in the top right of the sheet and select the **Tidy Theme Settings** option.

&nbsp;

# Accent Colors

Accent colors for a sheet are applied to the Character sheet header, and interactive elements like buttons and switches across your sheet.

> [!NOTE]
> You can pick any color you want for your sheet, but we highly recommend darker colors in the lower-right quarter of the color picker. We think the sheets look best with a color near the center of the color picker that isn't too saturated.

- Press the circle icon to select a custom accent color using a color picker or a few preset colors.
- Enter an HTML color code in the text field to set a specific color
- In Chromium based browsers, you can also use the eyedropper feature to select a color from anywhere on your screen.

&nbsp;

# Character Sheet Portrait Shapes

Change the Portrait style for the Character sheet here.

- **Round** - Classic round portrait style.
- **Square** - Classic square portrait style.
- **Transparent** - Highlight transparent portraits with a custom style and backdrop, including custom death and dying styles.
- **Token** - Use the Prototype Token image for your sheet instead of a portrait.

&nbsp;

# Actor Header Background

Choose a custom image for your Character sheet here to make the character feel like your own. You can add any image you want, but here are a few tips for making it work well:

- The image is always stretched full width to the sheet size.
- The image is top-aligned, so you may want to crop your image so that the focal point is near the top of the image.
- The image is forced to greyscale for contrast, so it won't carry over any color contrast. 
- To make your image look more detailed, adjust the exposure or contrast of your image to make it pop.
- Ideally, use an image 1480x600px or larger (at least a 2.4:1 ratio for height).

&nbsp;

# Rarity Colors

Customize the existing item rarity colors here, including any additional item rarities added through world scripts or modules like [Custom D&D 5e](https://github.com/Larkinabout/fvtt-custom-dnd5e/).

&nbsp;

# Spell Preparation Mode Colors

Customize the existing spell preparation mode colors here, including any additional modes added through world scripts or modules like [Custom D&D 5e](https://github.com/Larkinabout/fvtt-custom-dnd5e/).